This is Jocco podcast number 158.
With echo Charles and me, Jocco-Willink.
Good evening, Echo. Good evening.
There was blood all over the floor and smoke in the air.
I heard shots fired outside, but I wasn't quite sure who was shooting or what they were shooting at.
I moved down the hallway, confirming that all the rooms had been cleared.
I soon found the source of the blood.
I wounded Iraqi civilian on whom I sealed hospital corpsmen.
A highly trained combat medic was working to apply medical care.
And that's just a short little opening from Chapter 2 of the Book of the Decodomy Leadership
with that I wrote with my brother, Lave Babin.
And in that chapter, I go on to explain how during this operation in Fulusia, Iraq,
we went on to detain multiple suspected terrorists that night.
And I don't go into much detail about that.
And I don't talk about the people that we captured.
I think we took, I think we took about 13 people off target military-aged males.
We were probably looking for two or three. We weren't couldn't figure out or confirm who they were.
So we brought all the military-aged males off target.
And so we ended up at this detention facility and we're turning these individuals over.
And I'm sitting there kind of just looking at them,
sizing them up.
This is one of the earliest operations I had done in my life.
It was the first big operation I did in Iraq.
And so I'm sort of curious, I guess, for lack of a better word.
And I'm looking at the people that we had captured, like I said, I think there's 13 of them.
And just looking at them, looking at their emotions that they were going through.
And some of them look scared, right?
In fact, I would say the majority of them just look scared.
Just, this is not good.
And this is a bad situation.
And you get that feeling like, okay, this guy's probably not bad.
And we'll be released.
Some of the guys look mad, which is understandable too.
You know, someone comes in there, your house in the little night and it takes you.
And you can be mad about that.
If you can overcome the scared part, right?
And of course, these people lived under Saddam Hussein.
So they'd been through some brutal stuff.
And for them to be not afraid, was also an understandable thing.
Some of the older gentlemen.
And then there was one guy, though, that he looked different.
Look, the look in his eyes.
It definitely wasn't scared.
But it wasn't even mad.
It was like beyond mad.
It was beyond angry.
It was beyond a fanatical look.
The look that he had in his eyes was evil.
Look like an evil.
We could see evil there.
And I never will forget that face.
And I would see that type of face again over the years.
Now, especially in Iraq, you go out and capture someone that was known for doing horrible things.
And you could tell, you can grab five or six people.
And you'd say, oh, let me guess which one is the bad guy?
And usually wasn't very hard to tell.
And then occasionally, some of those bad guys would just look.
They looked completely evil.
They looked like sadists.
They looked like murderers.
They had the face of evil.
You could see it in their eyes.
And I was watching a video recently of a.
A young, beautiful young girl, blonde hair, kind of unkempt blonde hair, a little bit wild.
And she had a like a constant persistent smile sort of shining on her face.
She had young little innocent eyes that were filled with hope.
And I watched this video.
And she says in the video, she says, my name is Louise.
I'm a young lady from Denmark.
And I have a burning desire to go out into the Arctic.
And she's going on kind of describing herself.
She says, I'm very enthusiastic about the outdoors and outdoor activities.
I'm studying the outdoor life in Norway for the same reason.
I'm trying to find my dream.
She says, to go into the Arctic.
But sometimes I take some detours before I end up where I want.
And then the video she's got clips of her in various parts of the world on beaches and in jungles.
And she's clearly a traveler.
And then she says, but I'm still working my way towards the north.
A dream that has been stuck in my head.
And I hope wish and pray that I can retrieve my dream.
A dream of experiencing the feeling of kicking a dog sled through the big Arctic.
About feeling the ice crystals in my face.
And the view of an infinite white landscape.
I dream about learning and experiencing the magnificent, untamed Arctic.
And the video ends with her picking up snow in her hands and she blows it innocently into the camera lens and she's laughing.
And the video fades.
But she was not able to fulfill her dream.
In fact, she entered a nightmare and didn't return on December 17th, 2018.
That girl who made that video, her name was Louise Jessperson, and her friend, Marin Euland, another beautiful young lady from Norway.
They were both brutally murdered by a group of subhuman savages.
As they camped beside a hiking trail in Morocco.
And these despicable and violent people.
And I use that term loosely. These savages that murdered these two girls actually recorded their disgusting acts and posted them online.
They attacked these girls. They saw through their throats with butcher knives.
While they were still alive.
While they were screaming.
While they were gasping for air.
While they were begging for mercy.
They were eventually gurgling in their own blood.
And then fell silent.
And one of the murderers put his foot on one of the girl's heads to hold her neck in place while he finished the job of decadating her.
And these subhumans pledged their allegiance to ISIS.
And shouted, it's Allah's will as they killed these innocent girls.
Sick, depraved, vile creatures.
Evil.
Evil does exist.
Here's another example of evil.
I started doing time when I was 11 years old and I've been doing practically nothing else since then.
What time I haven't been in jail, I've spent either getting out or getting in again.
I have no desire or whatever to reform myself.
My only desire is to reform people who try to reform me.
And I believe the only way to reform people is to kill them.
In my lifetime, I have murdered 21 human beings.
I have committed thousands of burglaries, robberies, larsons, and larsons.
And last but not least, I have committed sautami on more than 1,000 male human beings.
For all of these things, I am not the least bit sorry.
I have no conscience, so that doesn't worry me.
I don't believe in man, God nor devil.
I hate the whole damn human race, including myself.
I pray to upon the weak, the harmless, and the unsuspecting.
This lesson I was taught by others might make right.
Carl Pan's RAM, number 31614.
And that is the opening of a book called Pan's RAM,
Journal of a Murderer.
Carl Pan's RAM was evil.
He was institutionalized for most of his life into tangent centers and prisons.
And whatever may have been good about him at one time, or another, was eventually suffocated.
Then what was left was pure, unmitigated hatred and malevolence.
And while he was going through one of his final stints in prison, he made friends with a young prison guard by the name of Henry Lesser.
And Henry Lesser seemed like a very good, positive person.
Kind of had the ideal of reform.
Now people could be helped, then his mind, and Henry asked that Pan's RAM, right, the story of his life, which Pan's RAM did.
And the notes were saved, saved, and documented, and there was additional information from various supporting sources surrounding other details of Pan's RAM's life.
And all that was put together and turned into this book.
Which, though it is a very difficult read, it's, in my opinion, worth reading together a better understanding of, of human nature, and specifically of the capacity for men to commit evil.
So again, most of this that I'm going to read from the book is his writing, Karl Pan's RAM's writing.
And here we go back to the book.
I was born June 28th, 1891 on a small farm in Minnesota.
My parents were of German descent, hardworking, ignorant, and poor.
The rest of the family consisted of five brothers and one sister, all of whom are dead except three of us brothers and our sister.
All of my family are as the average human beings are, they're honest and hardworking people, all except myself.
I've been a human animal ever since I was born.
When I was very young at five or six years of age, I was a thief and a liar, and the older I got, the meaner I got.
As fast as the older boys grew up, they also pulled out one died.
They left me, my sister, one older brother and my mother.
My sister and I were sent to school during the days, and as soon as we came home in the evenings, we were put to work in the fields where my older brother and my mother were always at work from daylight until long after dark sometimes.
My portion of pay consisted of plenty of work and a sound beating every time I looked cock-eyed or done anything that displeased anyone who was older and stronger and capable to catch me and kick me around whenever they felt like it.
And it seemed to me and still does now that everything was always right for the one who was the strongest and every single thing that I done was wrong.
So anyway, but right or wrong I used to get plenty of abuse.
Everybody thought it was all right to deceive me, lie to me, and kick me around whenever they felt like it, and they felt like it pretty regular.
That is the way my life was lived until I was about 11 years old.
At about that time I began to suspect that there was something wrong about the treatment I was getting from the rest of the human race.
When I was about 11 years old I began to hear and see that there were other places in this world besides my own little corner of it.
I began to realize that there were other people who lived nice, easy lives and who were not kicked around and worked to death.
I decided that I wanted to leave my miserable home.
Before I left I looked around and figured that one of our neighbors who was rich and had a nice home full of nice things had he had too much and I had too little.
So one night I broke into his home and stole everything to that to my eyes had the most value.
Those things were some apples, some cake, and a great big pistol.
Eating the apples and cake and carrying the pistol under my coat I walked to the railroad yards where I caught a freight train going to the west where I intended to be a cowboy and shoot Indians.
But I must have had my wires crossed because I missed my connection somewhere.
Instead of going out and seeing the world I was caught brought back home and beaten half the death and sent a jail from there and from there to the Minnesota State Training School at Red Wing Minnesota.
Right there and then I began to learn about man's inhumanity to man.
So he's off to a rough start.
And it was his father and left him and I didn't mention that part.
Obviously I'm not reading every part of the book but his father left the family and then it was up to his mom.
I was like he had the more than his share of the rebellious streak that I think most kids have.
And then he shows up at this Minnesota State Training School.
Back to the book when I first went to the Minnesota State State Training School.
I was about 12 years old, lively, healthy and very mischievous innocent and ignorant.
Immediately proceeded to educate me to be a good clean upright citizen and accredited to the human race.
They trained me all right in that training school.
During my two years I was trained by two different sets of people to have two different sets of morals.
The good people tried to train me to be good and the bad people did train me to be bad.
The method that the good people used in training was to beat goodness into me and all the badness out of me.
And their best but their best wasn't good enough to accomplish what they set out to do.
The more they beat me and whipped me the more I hated them and their damn religion.
Oh yes we had plenty of church and religion all right.
I used to be pretty ignorant and not able to read very well.
So I was always had a hard job learning my Sunday school lessons.
For failure to learn these lessons I was given a whipping.
During the first year I was there I used to get a beating every Saturday night and sometimes three or four more during the week for doing something I wasn't supposed to do or for not doing something I was supposed to do.
Oh yes I had plenty of abuse.
They had various methods of punishing us for doing wrong and for teaching us to do right.
The most popular with them was to take us to the paint shop so called because they're.
They used to paint our bodies black and blue.
Naturally I now love Jesus very much much.
Yes I love him so damn much that I would like to crucify him all over again.
I was too dumb to learn anything in school so they took me out and put me to work all day washing dishes and waiting on tables and the officers dining room.
Right there I began to get a little revenge on those who abused me when I served some food to the some of the officers.
I used to urinate in their soup coffee or tea and masturbate into their ice cream or dessert and then stand right beside them and watch them eat it.
They enjoyed it too because they told me so I wish they could read this now.
The next thing I tried to do is poison that Mr. John more by putting rap poison in his right's rice pudding.
But they caught me beat me and put me out of the dining room.
About that time I began to try and figure out some way to punish those who punished me.
The only thing I could figure out was to burn down the building in which the paint shop was located.
This I did. I got a long thick piece of heavy cotton string wrapped it around and around a long round stick and lit what end of it and hit it in the laundry near some oil soaked rags.
That night the whole place burned down in a cost of $100,000. Nice say.
Some of the boys who were cleverer than I finally put me wise to how I should perform if I ever wanted to get out of that joint.
They told me to act like I was a very good boy. Tell everybody I met. How much I love Jesus and how I wanted to go home and be a good boy.
Go to school and learn to be a preacher.
I done just as they suggested and I'm damned if it didn't work out just as slick as hot grease through a tin horn.
I was called in before the parole board one day and there I told them all the lies and how did I could and they gave me a parole and let me go home.
In that way I first found out how to use religion as a cloak of hypocrisy to cover up my raspalities.
Rough way to kick things off.
You're almost like you know you talk about evil you almost feel it for him though. You're almost on his side kind of like yeah I want to just beating you up your whole life making just grinding you if you're on beating you up and then like yes you're getting that's how you feel right now.
Well it's one of those things that's going to be.
You know yeah you feel sympathetic for someone and then you as as that person moves through life first of all it's there's other people that have been through worse things that turn out great and wonderful human beings and there's other people that go through less that turn out worse right so there's.
It's I'm those psychologists but there's there's it's one of the things that's troubling about this and as you as you hear what he goes through and what he turns into.
Yeah it's it's definitely a challenge and you know at the end of the day in my opinion like hey you're still responsible for your actions and hey we get it that you went through some hard things.
That doesn't give you an excuse to behave in in an immoral way just doesn't yeah doesn't I'm sure that you know like he you say now he's you know pissing in the soup and whatnot it I mean I'm assuming that was of the people who were trying to correct them and you know beating them more staff you know staff of the of the school where he was being trained.
Yeah so I think that's sort of why you're like kind of feeling for him because it's like oh yeah you're getting direct revenge on that kind of thing and you're of course you're angry kid.
Yeah of course what you went through but then yeah once you start just taking it out like oh let me see innocent person I'm mad at them because their life is and then you kill them or something then that's when you're going to start to not feel for them.
I'm sure.
Yeah I think so too yeah I guess you do get that kind of feeling like oh these guys are beating you up Nike and a little revenge.
You could you could make a positive movie about that right you could make a positive story you could spin it yeah I mean depending on where it goes from there.
So right now you're you're on his side.
Yeah basically come here.
I'm back to the book after serving about two years there I was pronounced by the parole board to be a nice clean boy of good morals as pure as a lily and a credit to those no authority in the in the instruction where I'd been sent to be reformed.
Yes sure I was reformed all right damn good and reformed too.
When I got out of there I knew all about Jesus in the Bible so much so that I knew it was all a lot of hot air.
That was not all I knew I'd been taught by Christians how to be a hypocrite.
And I learned about stealing lying, hating, burning and killing.
From the treatment I received while there and the lessons I learned from it I had fully decided when I left there just how I would live my life.
I made up my mind that I would rob burn, destroy and kill everywhere I went and everybody as long as I lived.
That's the way I was reformed in the Minnesota State Training School. That's the reason why.
So that's a little bit more that that's that's where you have something in his personality right there's something.
There's plenty of people that went to this school that didn't go and he did he made that's something snapped.
Where he decided that he was just going to make his life a life of making people suffer.
Going on back to the book I did not want to learn these lessons but I found out that it isn't what one wants in this world that one gets.
Force and might make right.
Perhaps things shouldn't be that way but that's the way they are.
I learned to look with suspicion and hatred on everybody.
As a year's went on that persisted in my mind that persisted that idea persisted in my mind above all others.
I figured that if I were strong enough and clever enough to impose my will on others I was right.
I still believe that to this day.
So this is just this twisted.
It's really it doesn't take long for him to get pretty twisted.
Like there's a lesson here of the lesson that he talks about if I found out that it isn't in the what one wants in the world that one gets.
Actually, it's important lesson but you don't always get what you want.
But then taking that to say, hey, if I'm strong enough and I can force my will on things then I'll get what I want more often.
Yeah and that he did say clever enough to which kind of it's weird because like a real low super low level of that still goes on I think with a lot of people.
You know, you're justifying things in your head, you know, be like, oh, you know, when you do something bad where you do something you know is unfair even that kind of low level stuff like it's not hurting no bunch for sure but it's like maybe not fair or something like that and you just justify in your head.
Like some people their clever like they're smart so they can justify their justifications or way more legit seeming because they're real smart they can just you know.
It's kind of like what you see the lawyers doing the movie.
You know, you paint someone to be like someone like what the you kind of take things out of context and put other things in context and not supposed to be there kind of thing and yeah you just kind of paint this picture in your own mind.
Why what you're doing is right and of course another people's mind to you know and you're clever enough to get why with it.
Yeah, you're you're justifying it yourself and he's he's not even talking about that he doesn't need to justify himself he's doing he's doing to to get what he wants.
Yeah and his use of being clever isn't to justify to himself his use of being clever is just to outwit people and take advantage of be a con man.
And he gets so he's in and out of prison and he goes back in a prison he gets out of prison he goes back in a prison here at this point he broke out of prison and he hooks up with a guy named Jimmy Benson back to the book he showed me how to work the stick up racket and how to rob the poor boxes and churches.
I in turn taught him how to set fire to a church after we robbed it.
We got very busy on that robbing and burning a church regular every chance we got.
When we got tired of writing a train because this is their their you know hitching on these trains when he got tired of writing on a train we used to open up the journal boxes take out the greasy waste packing and throwing some sand or gravel into it they wouldn't get far with that car so.
They get done writing a train and they just destroy it they really they ruin the gear boxes just general destruction of everything.
I continue to end it out of prison one time he's drunk.
And here's a guy talking about the army and ends up enlisting in the army back to the book I was only in the army a month or two when I got three years in US military prison at Fort Levenworth Kansas.
I had the job of swinging 18 pound hammer in the rock quarry most of my bit my number was 1874 and my name was Carl Panzeram.
There I done 37 months I done plenty of work and I had plenty of punishment and the only good part of it was that they didn't try to hammer any more religion into me.
At this time of my life I was about 20 years old six foot tall and weighed about 190 pound of concentrated hell fired man inspired meness.
I was strong as two or three average men.
I had to be to be able to withstand some of the punishments in labor that I went through during my three years in the US military prison.
One of my tasks in punishments while there was to be shackled to a 50 pound iron ball for six months.
During that time I wore the ball and chain day and night slept with it and work with it on.
My work was in the rock quarry and that was three miles from the prison the gang of about 300 convicts and 40 screws used to march out in the morning and back at night.
The other men had to carry nothing except themselves but my part was to load my iron ball an 18 pound hammer a pick and shovel in a six foot iron crowbar all into a wheelbarrow and march behind the line of cons out to the quarry and work there for eight and a half hours in the hot Kansas sun busting big rocks.
But all that treatment did one good thing for me the worst food was and the harbor they worked me the stronger I got.
So he got a good workout already big.
He said yeah he's six feet to 190 pounds back in what is it 1900 or whatever he's a yolk dude back then.
All this hardcore physical labor and yeah he's turning into a very scary dude.
Back to the book I was discharged from prison in 1910 by the way can you imagine you're in the army for a couple months and you get put in the eleven worth for three years.
I was the spirit of meanness personified. I had not at this time got so that I hated myself I only hated everybody else.
Before I left there I sung on the same old song and gave him the same line about how I sure love Jesus and what a nice young man I was and how much good I it had done me to be sent to that prison.
I don't know if they believe me or not but they all said they did anyway they all declared that I was pure as a lily and free from sin.
Again there's so a bunch of travel and there's a bunch of crazy he's a constant criminal and it is another thing we realize back in this day the reason he named he said oh at this time I was Carl Panzeram is because he changes his name a bunch because that's what just what you would do back then if you were a criminal.
And there's no electronic tracking system there's no phone numbers no cell phone there's not even a phone like phones and everyone's houses so you can get away with murder quite literally and he does.
But he he's maybe not the best criminal as well because he gets caught a lot you know for Robin and stealing and part of it's because he has like a dozen carat.
So he gets put he gets arrested at different time he gets put into a chain gang and he eventually.
breaks away from escapes the chain gang and then he goes continuing skipping trains and ends up with an Indian guy and they work together as a little team and they rob a guy and here we go back to the book the Indian tied him up.
And he felt pulled his pants down to below his knees and tied his legs together then he tied his hands behind his back then he tied his hands to his feet pulled together.
Then he stuffed a socket his mouth and tied a handkerchief tight over that and then tied him to a tree.
He was then ready to leave him and walk away but I wasn't through yet I figured while I had such a good chances that I would commit a little saw to me on him.
I proceeded to do and he mentions at one point that he hooked up with a girl and got some kind of VD and then he was like oh girls not they're dirty and so that's why he goes after guys now.
Back to the book at night while I was riding for the freight trains I was always on the lookout for something to shoot.
Or trying to stick up the hobos that I met on the trains. I looked them all over and whenever I met one who wasn't too rusty looking I would make him raises hands and drop his pants.
I wasn't very particular either. I rode them old and young tall and short white and black it made no difference to me.
Someone's later I was pinched at Chinook Montana for burglary.
I quick took a plea of guilty and got one year at the state prison at Dear Lodge Montana.
When I got there I met my old partner Jimmy Benson who is doing 10 years for robbery. I stayed there about eight months and escaped. He's also good at escaping. He escapes all these things all the time.
A week later I was arrested in three forks Montana for burglary under the name of Jeff Rhodes. I pleaded guilty and got a year and was sent back to Dear Lodge where I was at once brought to court and given one year for my escape under the name Jeff Davis.
Out of these three sentences I served 23 months in that prison there was only work for a few men and I wasn't one of those.
All the cells were for two men in each cell. Each man could choose his own cell mates and get a new one anytime you wanted. I used to want a new one pretty regular.
At that place and time I got to be an experienced wolf.
I knew more about Sodomy than old boy Oscar Wilde ever thought of knowing I would start in the morning with Sodomy work as hard as as hard at it as I could all day and sometimes half the night.
I was so busy committing Sodomy that I didn't have time left to serve Jesus as I had been taught to in those reform schools.
He gets out of that prison as soon as I got to Oregon and get to put another prison. I got to as soon as I got to Oregon State prison I was in more trouble.
I score I would never do the seven years and defied the warden and all his officers to make me.
Get to put in solitary confinement. Here we go in solitary confinement. There are coolers and coolers.
Some are bad and some are worse. None are good. Some are cold and wet. Some are hot and dry. Some you freeze and others you roast and sweat. In all you are hungry and thirsty and filthy and dirty.
And some you stay a day. Others a week. And there have been times when I had been in the cooler a month or more.
Bread and water isn't very nourishing and neither does it generate clean thinking and a person's mind. The milk of human kindness generally curdles and turns into sour under such conditions.
The more cooler you get, the more heat and hate there is in your heart.
In every joint I was ever in. There was always some form of torture that was on tap. I used the got my share of every kind there was. I've had them all at one time or another.
And then he goes on through a bunch of different.
Torture that they would use on these prisoners from like straight jacket type things. There's something called the snording pole.
Which is a post about 12 feet long. You get basically tied to it. You get whipped.
Back to the book when the lash begins to take away little bits of hide and the blood begins to run. Then the sucker begins to jerk and yell. And snort. That's why it's called the snording pole.
When a man is let down after being whipped he has blood on his back and murder in his heart.
That's all about the snording pole. There's the bat in the paddle. Here's this thing. The restraint machine.
The restraint machine barefooted standing on a cold damp concrete floor backed up to an iron bar door hands behind cuff to the door.
A large belt under my arms around my chest pulled tight to the door.
Standing in that position for four hours then let down for one hour to eat my bread and water then four hours more than to bed, which was aboard no blankets.
In the morning bread and water and then four hours more and so on for a stretch of anywhere from five to 14 days. That was the limit. That's your restraint machine.
You've ever heard? Okay. I know you're claustrophobic, right? Sure. Yeah. I mean you are. But sometimes I don't think I'm claustrophobic but sometimes I want to move a limb, right?
You know what I'm saying?
And for instance you're on a plane and you're all tight in an economy seat up against the bulkhead and there's like it's tight.
You know that part of the plane towards the back where the bulkhead kind of curves and so you're even losing a little bit more space.
And you just want to move, you know, but you can't because the seat belt light just went on over there. Yes. Now imagine doing four hours like that for 14 days.
Four hours twice a day for 14 days.
Yes. That's hard.
Yeah, that's actually really harsh. So there's like two way and to Samclot because claustrophobia usually is like, you know,
you're going to an elevator and you feel it that kind, you know, I don't have it like that. But yeah, maybe I'm a little bit more sensitive to those kind of side controls side control claustrophobia.
Well, you know, I used to, yes, but this is more what it is to put accurately.
Did I yield me? Yeah.
Actually what it was was like you just got in better shape. That's all because like it wasn't it was the idea that I'm like tired and I won't be able to get out there.
Like I'm stuck here forever. I'm going to die here. That's the feeling you get. But when I wasn't tired, I'm like, oh, no, I can cruise down here. I just don't know. It felt like it was better.
The last time we rolled, didn't you have a little issue down there? No. Are you sure? Yes.
I don't remember having any issue.
I've been really good recently, probably like year. It's been years. But that's the feeling is what it is. So, but here's when I got an MRI on my arm. You tap to something the other day that's not tapping offense. I forget what it was.
It was your that that forum on my throat. Remember it was.
It didn't fit like I couldn't. It was too like you did it too hard for me to have time to figure out. I can turn this way or what it to relieve the pain. You did it like too fast.
I did it with like a little extra like a little. Yeah, it wasn't like a striker and nothing like that. But yeah, it was like, I would have got my throat would have gotten injured if I would have.
I had an MRI on my. Oh, you're selling that tube. Yeah. So, which is fine if you're just in a comfortable position. It can be when you open your eyes and you look out for it.
It's a tube is like lit inches in front of your face and you're in there. Yeah, I can kind of jam you up. But you just close your eyes and be like, oh, that's big. It's a customer is a big deal in the in the seal teams, especially if you're going to do it because you had to lock out of the sub submarine chambers, which isn't in the old days.
The submarine chamber that wasn't built for seals to lock out of, it was built for an escape hatch if there's an emergency on the submarine.
So, you can do a little chamber and then once you're in the little chamber, it fills with water equalized with the outside and then the door opens up and you can just go. That's that's called a lock out chamber and we used to do that. And there's still we still do it, but like it's a little bit more of a specialized group that does that now, but it used to just be a general thing for good for if you were in the days, do that.
And we could definitely because you're in there with equipment. So, a while, like we take a lot of time to get a whole seal squad out.
Like what, like what's a while? Well, you'd be in that little chamber for probably 15 minutes at a time, but here's the thing you're in there. There's two major situations going on. Number one, you're not just in there.
You're in there with like one or two other guys, but you're also in there with equipment. So you have bags of weapons, waterproof weapons. You actually have your boats in there.
And they're, so it's all tight. And here's what it really took.
So the water starts to fill. This starts to fill up.
And then as it's filling up, it gets to a point where you've got to keep it equalized and you're using these little pressure valves.
You basically crank a valve that pushes air into the chamber. And so that pushes the water down.
If you're not good, then you're going to mess up the pressure and you're going to, it's called losing the bubble because there's a bubble of air that you're just sitting there breathing.
If you don't equalize the pressure well, then that bubble just keeps going up and then you lose the bubble the bubble's gone.
Which I think is where the, that's what I always thought losing the bubble. You've heard that term, right?
No. Okay. When someone says, oh, he's losing the bubble. You've never heard that before?
No. Well, we would say it. And I've heard it. I've heard civilians say it too. So pretty sure that's it.
Yeah. But I think that that's where it came from. It's like, oh, you're losing the bubble. And I've been in the chamber when someone lost the bubble.
Yeah.
And I remember, I was telling the guy, I was like, hey, you're losing the bubble. You're losing the bubble. You're losing the bubble.
You're losing the bubble. You're losing the bubble. You're losing the bubble. You're losing the bubble.
And then I'm underwater. And then you've got to find the, you've got to find the octopus, which is the regulator, which you have, you have air tanks just in there, like compressed air tanks, like scuba tanks that are strapped to the wall.
Just in case someone loses the bubble.
And then you've got to find they got to camp late on the red camp lights and you're just digging out.
Oh, you grab the red, come on. You find your thing. You start breathing and you find the valve and you crank it. And then the bubble comes back.
But yeah. Yeah. But if you're, if you're claustrophobic in that situation, it's going to be problematic.
Big-ton. Yeah.
Huge. Yeah.
Just like, like, expression on your face at this time tells me that you would not, how big was it?
How big is the chambers?
Like, it's smaller than the area that you and I are sitting right now.
So yeah.
So my MRI for my bicep, I had to go like this, like, my hand up in the air.
Well, you know, I'm laying down. So it's not up in the air. But like, so you're not laying regular.
One hand is up. Okay.
And for 15 minutes in that little teeny tiny tube.
So like, are you saying, I could lay on my bed like that?
Did they sedate you or anything?
No. You just dealt with it?
No. Yeah. This is not how about a few MRIs in my time.
But I just relax or when in there.
Yeah. I didn't lose the bubble like you did it.
Right. No, no, no. The thing is I did it. Well, here's the thing.
So this is what I really admitted to myself. Okay. I have like a little sensitivity to it.
So you know, see, he's like, okay, you got to put your arm up because it, you know, and you can't move.
So I'm thinking, man, I can just lay down my bed like this all day.
I'll sleep like that, you know, but why am I super like nervous about this?
So I go in and he's putting me in and I feel my heart just start being real fast.
Like, full on my call man.
But, but I mentally push through it.
Like the kind of doctor like not even a minute, but maybe like 30, 45 seconds.
And like, you know, you're watching guys cave diving.
Like, what do you mean? No. Yes, guys.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. We're under water, but it's under water cave.
Yeah. And you're diving. Yeah. That can get a little tight.
Yeah. So, and that I weed, um, on Kwa, there's a place called the Blue Room.
And it's that.
And here's the thing. So it's basically a cave. You walk up this mountain.
You like, I don't know, 50, 50 yards, maybe up a mountain.
And you go into the mountain.
Well, no, no, the mountain is here. You just walk up 50 yards then.
There's a cave. That's where the cave is.
And you go in the cave and depending on, you know, how much it rained or whatever.
There's a little lake in the caves.
It's really cool. We always go at the back of the cave.
It's a little teeny tiny hole, teeny tiny hole.
If the water's too high and it covers that hole, it's still a hole, but it's on you got to go underwater.
So at the end of that, it basically, that hole is a hallway that you swim through. You can't touch the bottom.
It's like you swim through this little hallway and it goes in and curves.
This is maybe a 20, 20 yards, maybe.
And not 20. That's, that's, you know, maybe 10 yards in the dark though.
And the only light is this glowing bright blue light that the water creates from the sun that shines in the water and kind of reflects up.
It's really, it's really nice, but yeah, if you have an issue with that,
Especially if the water gets another side, what do you use?
It's a big room in now. That's the thing that's open to the light.
The light from the water lights up the room.
So it's, yeah, it's really weird. That's why you kind of go because it's really awesome.
The thing is there's nothing to hold onto. You're trading water in that room.
So it's like, oh, the room is deep water.
Yeah, you can't touch it. He was like in there.
So you can't touch the bottom at all.
You know, but if the water level is high enough where that cave or the hall table call it,
It's like this, you know, where you can just barely to, it gets like, oh, this is kind of nerve wracking for sure.
But sometimes it's real low and it's cool you just swim through.
But if it's like your first time, or you have a little bit of claustrophobia in water like that, you know, it'll jam you up for sure.
But I never had a problem with that one.
It's that it's what you said when you know you can't move. But if you know you can move also, you can just stay there.
It's weird. It's like a psychological thing, you know?
Yeah, no, it's just a psychological thing.
But yeah, I get that every once in a while on the plane too.
The restraint machine.
So I guess that would be really effective against some people that have a little claustrophobia.
Or they would get so nothing.
The thing is though, okay, let's say all these methods are bad, right?
Let's say all these methods of reform are bad.
I feel good about saying that.
Okay, and then you say, okay, if I was in that situation, I would do everything I could to get out of the scenario where, like, okay, I got arrested and I got put in the restraint machine and I got the beat with the paddle and I got all those things happening.
Guess what?
You know what I'm going to do is try and stay clean on a little bit, right?
Get on the maybe get on a little bit of a path, a better path.
Yes, sir.
It didn't work that all.
At all.
He didn't care.
Yeah.
Well, it kind of makes sense that like, when, what did he say went after the snording pole or whatever, like, oh, you just fell out of your back and murdered it.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, that seems like because even the claustrophobia thing on the, on the, on the, on the, what's that called the restraint situation.
Four hours every, like every session all day.
You know, like, perhaps after all, you're like, you're going to get used to that or you're going to go so nuts that you're just going to faint or I don't know something like that.
Either way, there's a part of your mind, I would think, I don't know.
Let's just what it feels like listening to it.
I feel like I would just be so nuts at the end.
Like, I would, I wouldn't care about that restraint thing.
I would just care about like murdering the person or something.
I could see how that could go.
Yeah.
I mean, I personally could go that way.
I probably try not to go there anymore, but that's just me.
Yeah, so maybe as a reformer, if you cross the line and you make someone snap now, you're no longer being productive.
This is true with your kids, then maybe you haven't experienced this yet, but you can go like push your kids to a point where they don't care.
Yeah, like, oh, I'll take this away.
I'll take this away.
And then all of a sudden they go, I don't care.
Take it.
They throw their, you know, the toilet that you're threatening me throw it at you.
Yeah.
Take it.
Remember the breakfast club, remember that movie?
I do remember that part that I John Bender.
Well, this is really free of the act.
Just kidding.
But anyway, I'm just trying to play Bender.
Is this name?
Which guy is which character?
The bad guy, the bad kid.
Okay.
Yeah.
And he's really, and he's like, um, he's like, hey, did Barry Manelow raid or did you,
would raid Barry Manelow's wardrobe?
And he's like, I'll keep you the answer to that.
Uh, next Saturday saying like, you got another detention here next Saturday.
And then he says something else because then you got another Saturday.
And he's like, well, I'm free to start it.
You know, he did that.
You're not doing it.
Yeah.
And then he's holding up the horn.
Two months.
Bender.
I got two months.
That was good.
That was a good part there.
So yes, you can't push it too far.
And obviously, from a leadership perspective, we'll just go for a little leadership perspective.
There are things you can do to the people that work for you where they won't care anymore.
Yeah.
And now you, now you, you're done.
You have you lost control of.
So don't do that.
He talks about this electric electric shock to you.
They called the hummingbird.
First an ordinary steel bathtub with in which four or five inches of ice cold water.
The victim is laid down in there and chained hand and foot.
Then the chief torture enters the scene.
He's dressed in ordinary clothes and has only a rubber slicker and a pair of rubber gloves on his hands.
And his hands heal to common sponge.
The sponge is connected to electric battery by wires.
The switch is turned on in the torture advances on the victim.
He first begins on the souls of the feet by gently rubbing the charge sponge there.
And then gradually working his way up to the body and to the head.
The sensations of to the victim are that there seems to be millions of red hot needles sticking into him.
The agony is intense.
Two or three minutes and the victim is ready for the grave or the madhouse.
Yet there is not a single mark or bruise on his whole body.
A physician stands beside the victim and every few seconds feels the pulse and examines him.
When he judges that the victim is exactly on the verge of madness or death, he gives the signal to switch off the current.
Then the victim is thrown into a cell where he is left for a few days or weeks.
Yeah.
The victim is ready for the grave or the madhouse.
Yet there is not a single mark or bruise on his whole body.
That's weird the sponge.
How they put the sponge there.
Like on lethal weapon one.
He got rags with that.
Yeah, yeah.
And remember it.
But he has that sort of, maybe think of when he had the sponges.
And he's in the shower.
I'll tie it up like that.
He keeps like hitting them.
He's like hitting them again.
Yeah, those sponges.
I wonder what that's about though.
The sponge.
It conducts.
Just can it let your city.
Yeah, because it will have a water water conduct.
Yeah, that's the same with direct mark.
It's just hitting you with like a big shock pillow of shock.
Okay.
It continues on.
He gets eventually gets out of that prison.
And he actually broke out of that prison.
And then he's now he's just on like full crime mode.
I don't even know what those beyond crime mode.
But just full stealing, raping, murdering, swindling.
He steals enough money.
He works on a bunch of different boats.
And eventually steals enough money to buy a yacht.
So he's bought a yacht.
Yeah.
And I don't know what how big the yacht was.
But it wasn't small.
And here we go back to the book.
On my yacht, I had quarters for five people.
But I was alone for a while.
Then I figured it would be a good plan to hire a few sailors to work for me.
Get them out on my yacht.
Get them drunk.
Commit saw to me on them.
Rob them and kill them.
This I done.
Every day or two, I would get plenty of blues booze by robbing other yachts there.
The barber two was one of them.
I robbed her dozen or so.
Others around there.
I was hitting the booze pretty hard myself at that time.
Every day or two, I would go to New York and hang around 25th Street and size up the sailors.
Whenever I saw a couple who were about my size and seemed to have money,
I would hire them to work on my yacht.
I would always promise a big pay and easy work.
What they got was something else.
I would take them and their clothes and gear out to my yacht at City Island.
There we would go and wine and dine and when they were drunk enough,
I would go to bed or they would go to bed.
When they were sleeper to get my 45 cult automatic.
Army pistol.
This I stole from Mr. Taff's house and blow their brains out.
Then I would take out a rope and tie a rock on them and put them into my rope out.
Roll them out in the main channel about one mile and drop them overboard.
They are there yet, 10 of them.
I worked that racket for about three weeks.
Eventually it gets on another ship.
Loses that. It kind of gets people are suspect.
He goes, gets on a ship to Europe from Europe.
He goes to Africa.
In Africa, he buys a girl.
I paid a big price for her.
I bought her from her mother and father for about $8.00 in American money.
The reason I paid such a big price for her was because she was a virgin.
Yeah, so she said.
She was about 11 or 12 years old.
I took her to my shack the first night and took her back to her father's and shack the next.
I demanded my money back because they had deceived me by saying the girl was a virgin.
I didn't get my money back but they gave me another younger girl.
This girl was about eight years old.
I took her to my shack and maybe she was a virgin but it didn't look like it to me.
I took her back and quit looking for any more virgins.
I look for a boy.
I found one.
He was our table waiter.
I educated him into the art of Saudi me as practiced by civilized people.
But he was only a savage and didn't appreciate the benefits of civilisation.
He told my boss and the boss man fired me quick but before he did I looked to hell out of him.
The boy, 11 or 12, came a woman.
Another boy, about 11 or 12 came a woman around.
He was looking for something he found it too.
I took him out to a gravel pit about a quarter mile from the main camp of the sink clear.
Oil company.
I left him there but first I committed saw to me on him and then killed him.
His brains were coming out of his ears when I left him and he will never be any dead or he is still there.
He ends up murdering another six people in Africa and a boat.
He chartered a canoe and then kills everyone in it and then signs onto a ship that's heading back to New York.
He was the summer of 1922. He arrives back in America back to the book and Salem massed
Tuesets. I murdered an 11 or 12 year old boy by beating his brains out with a rock.
I tried a little saw to me on him first.
I left him laying there with his brains coming out of his ears.
Went down towards New York, robbing and hell raising as I came.
In January of February of 1923 I got a job.
I was a watchman at 220 y.m.
I have a new york.
While there I met a young boy of 14 or 15, his name was George and whose home was in was and is in Yonkers.
I started to teach him the fine art of sawdemy but he had but I found he had been taught about it all and he liked it fine.
I kept him with me until I left that job of in April of 1923.
The kid George got scared and I let him go home to Yonkers when he got there.
He told the police all he knew about me which wasn't much but it was enough for the cops to come.
Looking for me they caught me and my yacht at Naya.
They took me and all my plunder to Yonkers jail there.
Charge me with sawdemy, burglary, robbery and trying to break jail there.
In and out again a few days later I went to New Haven where I killed another boy.
I committed a little more sawdemy on him and then tied his belt around his neck and strangled him.
Pick him up where he was when he was dead and threw his body over behind some bushes.
Eventually he does his time he gets trial for the sawdemy, burglary and robbery.
He's guilty and immediately given the limit of the law five years at once. I was sent to Sing Sing.
Story of the
He's in this really bad prison.
And there's a description that's not from him.
That's just part of the book, part of the information in the book.
Talking about Dana Mora.
And how bad it is there.
And then he's done all hope this heinous.
I mean, just heinous acts that he should be killed
for over and over again.
And here he is going back to the book.
I attempted to escape.
I failed in my attempt to put a doing so I fell about 30 feet to a concrete walk, breaking
both my ankles, both my legs, fracturing my spine and rupturing myself.
In this condition, I was carried to the prison hospital where I lay for five days and was
carried out and dumped into a cell without any medical or surgical attention.
Whatever.
My broken bones were not set.
My ankles and legs were not put into a cast.
In fact, nothing was done except give me a bottle of liniment, which I would have done
which would have done no good if I had been able to rub it on myself.
The doctor never came near me and no one else was allowed to do anything for me.
In that condition, I was left for eight months.
At the end of the time, the bones had knitted together so I could stagger around on a pair
of crutches.
So it's like he's complaining about his mal-treatment.
Right?
I don't injured and they didn't take care of it.
It's like, hey, bro.
Yeah.
You don't get any good treatment.
At the end of 14 months of constant agony, I was taken to the hospital where I was operated
on for my rupture and one of my testicles was cut out.
Five days after my operation, I tried to see if my sexual organs were still in go and order.
I got caught trying to commit Sodomy on another prisoner.
For that, I was thrown out of the hospital and dumped into a cell where I suffered more agony
for many months.
Always in pain, never a civil answer for anyone, always a snaller, a curse, or a lying,
hypocritical promise which was never kept.
Crawling around like a snake with a broken back, seething with hatred and a lust for revenge
five years of my life of this kind.
For the last two years and four months, confined in isolation with nothing to do except
bruised upon what I thought was the wrongs that had been done to me not allowed to receive
letters or visits from friends.
When the prison inspectors came to investigate conditions and complaints, they were told
I was a degenerate that I suffered from delusions.
That I was insane so they would pay no attention to me or anything that I or anyone else
ever complained of.
This went on for all of my five years and the more they misused me, the more I was
filled the spirit of hatred and revenge.
I was so full of hate that there was no room in me for such feelings as love, pity, kindness,
or honor, or decency.
I hated everyone I saw.
Again, it's a guy that he only sees the pain that's been caused to him but apparently
doesn't see any of the pain that he's causing anybody else.
Zero empathy.
Zero.
Doesn't it seem or could it happen like this with him?
Where?
When he's young, he gets beat down.
Obviously not shown much affection.
That's some assumption obviously.
But beat down.
So now he has his hatred.
Now he inflicts pain on quote unquote others because of the hatred he has or whatever.
So it's kind of like him kind of what getting even for sure.
For sure.
Like we're better terms.
So he gets even and then he gets punished for that.
Obviously because he can't commit crimes like that.
So he gets punished.
So now he thinks it's uneven now.
Hey, you know, it's just the feeling he's not like yes.
So now he's like, oh, now that now me being punished for what I did by the way, but me being
punishes giving me even more hate.
Now I got a seek vengeance for that.
Then he does it.
Then of course he just keeps doing it.
So it's like this cycle.
Well, there's another cycle here.
And the cycle is he's blaming everyone else for the situation.
That is like that.
You know, he's blaming every and at a certain point, sure.
Let's let's blame that first state penitentiary that he was in when he was a kid, the
state school.
Let's put some blame on them.
Okay.
But you got out of that.
You had another opportunity to get on the right path.
And then what do you do?
You just blame blame blame blame blame blame.
And the more you're blaming other people, do you put yourself into a downward spiral that
he's never going to get out of.
Obviously.
And now he's blaming.
He blames the whole human race.
I mean, let's, it's really easy just to sort of, he only writes about it for three sentences.
But like, oh, oh, a new haven, I raped and murdered on a 11 year old boy.
Like no, you don't get any mercy now.
And you can't blame anyone else for doing that.
That's no one else is fault.
You did that.
Yes.
Yeah.
But in his mind.
Oh, for like, you know, like when you hit, let's say you flick your friend on the head,
joking around, right?
You flick them on the head.
Good joke.
Yeah.
Then your friends like should be a trick.
It feels like, hey, that's kind of hard.
You know, so he like flick.
You're just going to super hard.
And you're like, hey, I didn't flick you on the head that hard.
So you smack him.
You know, and it turns into his big fight and who's who's to blame, right?
Yeah.
Both guys feel like, hey, I flick.
You're just joking.
You're not to flick me that hard.
The other guy's like, why'd you flick me the first?
But you don't kind of think.
So, and I'm not saying that that's what happened.
But in his mind, that's probably what it feels like.
Oh, for sure, that's what it feels like.
For sure, that's what it feels like.
And we all can feel like that at one time or another.
We think, oh, it's this person's fault.
It's that person's fault.
It's my parents.
It's the school system.
It's the whatever.
It's society, right?
It's society.
It's every other human being.
Like that's where he's at right now.
He hated everyone I saw.
That's where he's at.
So he's like, he's the victim.
And he's the victim.
And he just just listened to, I mean, it's so clear when he's talking about all these
medical problems that he's the victim.
He's the victim.
Or as if he would have just swapped his attitude early on and said, okay, what about
what's happening right now?
Even the first, why did he get, why did he get sent to the state penetrator, or
it's in the state school system?
Because he stole a gun ran away, ripped off a family of their stuff.
Like, oh, if you do that, you go to prison.
But he didn't see that.
This is fault.
That wasn't his fault.
He did that because he was living in a bad home.
It's like, okay, at some point you have to take ownership of what's going on in your
world.
And you can't just continually blame other people.
If you do, eventually, you know who's at fault, everyone in the world but you.
So let's not get there.
I'll tell you what, it's a pretty good transition for when I joined the Navy.
That's one thing that I've talked about how when I joined the Navy it's like a clean
slate.
You know what I mean?
It doesn't matter what you did.
And that was a really positive thing for me because all of a sudden, and it's a very
cause and effect when you go through like Navy boot camp or any kind of boot camp, any
kind of military and nocturnation, if you don't do what you're supposed to do, you get
punished for it.
If you do what you're supposed to do, you either A, don't get punished at a minimum, or
you get some type of reward.
And it's all set up that way, purposely.
But it's very easy, it was very easy for me to comprehend as a 18 year old kid going,
oh, if I, if I do this right, I will be rewarded.
If I do this wrong, I will be punished.
This is on me.
And then what you, then the next thing that they build on top of that is, if I let my team
do something wrong, we will all get punished.
If we do things correctly, we will receive a minimum no punishment and possibly some
type of reward.
It was very easy for me to assemble those pieces in my young brain.
And let's face it when you're 18 years old, I mean, my brain wasn't all that developed.
Right?
I mean, like physiologically speaking, the, the, the mail, like what is it?
The mail frontal cortex isn't fully formed until like 25, right?
Didn't you tell me that?
Yes.
Yeah.
So there you go.
And I, yet, was able to figure out, okay, wait a second.
If I do this, it's on me.
If I get punished, it's my fault.
If our team gets punished.
And again, that's a, that's a little jump there that kind of bring you through that little
phase of like, okay, we get, now you're responsible for you.
You understand that?
And once you understand that's like, okay, now you're responsible for your team.
And some people don't make that transition.
Some people, you know, within the team, oh, it wasn't my fault.
It was Jimmy's fault.
Yeah.
And as you stay in the military longer or as you go in any workforce, eventually you realize,
okay, if we don't, if I don't work as a team, we're all going to get punished.
Yeah.
So I need to help the team.
He's not learning any of this.
No, no, he's that helping me.
That's awful.
Oh.
Back to the book.
My whole mind was bent on figuring out ways to annoy and punish my enemies and everybody
was my enemy.
I had no friends.
I was the frame of mind I was in when my five years was up and I was turned loose to go
anywhere I wanted to go.
My intention was to rob rape and kill everybody I could, anybody and everybody.
And he goes through these long kind of plans of putting bombs inside tunnels and how
to get a gas mask, he was going to poison gas and he was going to steal so much money.
And then with this, with this bunch of money that he was going to get from robbing all
these people in this plot that he has with that, he says, with unlimited funds in my hands,
I then intended to steal millions of dollars and kill millions of people.
This I intended to do by starting a war between England and the USA.
Sounds fantastical right, but I'm positive.
He could have done it.
He goes through his whole plot of how he was going to make that happen.
He was going to bomb a British ship that was, you know, like, he or peacefully.
Bomb it and make it look like America did it, what, when diplomatic relationship for already
strained, that was his plan.
It's crazy.
I used to spend all my time figuring out how I could murder the most people with the least
harm and expense to myself.
And I finally thought of a way to kill off the whole town men, women, children and even
cats and dogs.
And he goes through another big plan about using arsenic and dead hogs and put them in the
water splim, he goes through like detailed plants.
Now this was some interesting, his perception of what it was like he's back in jail again.
And I forget what for this time.
But for all this crap that he's doing all the time, all these crimes he's committing,
back to the book, the underworld code is very simple.
It is never squeal.
Don't be a stool pigeon or rat on in former.
All crooks want everybody else to believe that they are square.
Cops are the same.
They all wish everybody else to think they act from principle.
They're always telling everyone they need about how much principle they have.
It is against their principle to do this or that.
The queer part of it is that they not only want others to believe this, but they believe
it themselves.
But the real truth of the matter is that they deceive themselves and mistake policy for
principle.
When crooks are square with anyone, it is because it is for their own interest to be.
So it is good policy.
When it ceases to be in their own interest to square with another one, then it becomes
time to change their tactics and they aren't slowing doing it either.
It makes no difference to them who they snitch on no matter if they have been loyal to each
other through a whole lifetime as partners and friends.
No matter if they send their friends to prison or to hell by way of rope or chair, that
cuts no ice.
They are looking out for their own precious skins.
Now this is a guy also that doesn't trust anybody.
And that is actually what he said.
You can say that about a lot of people, but there are all kinds of criminals that never
give up the never giving up on his names.
Never rat on anybody else.
And they get the book thrown out of him and they take it.
Back to the book.
Every child has this is interesting.
Every child has some criminal tendencies.
It is your place to correct those traits and teach them the right way to live while they
are young and their minds are forming.
Then when they reach the age of reason and action, it will be quite natural for them
to live clean, upright, honorable lives in that way you will stop crime at its source
before it begins.
As a child, a child is very easily led.
Any child that properly taught will live the way he is taught to live.
All criminals are merely overgrown children.
It is in your hands to make us or break us.
We buy our own efforts, our failures in life simply because we don't know any better.
We don't know how to live decent upright lives.
Hereditary, heredity has it very little to do with the shaping of our lives.
The main causes of why we are, what we are is because of our improper teaching, lack of knowledge
and our environment.
Every man's philosophy is colored by his environment.
If you don't want us to rob rape and murder you, then it is your place to see that the
mental and moral misfits are properly taught a sufficient amount of useful and sensible
knowledge to put their proper and put into the proper environment where they can be best
fitted to exist in life.
So there you go.
The nature of nurture, argument, pans ram, all nurture.
It's all how you raise.
He goes on, I was born a normal human being.
My parents were ignorant and through their improper teachings and improper environment
I was gradually led into the wrong way of living.
Little by little from Brad Badd to worse, I was sent to reform school at age 11.
From that day to this, all of my life has been lived among moral and mental misfits.
All my associates, all my surroundings, the atmosphere of deceit, treachery, brutality,
degeneracy, hypocrisy and everything that is bad and nothing that is good.
It is unnatural that I should have absorbed these things and I have become what I am today.
A treacherous, degenerate brutal, savage human, devoid of all decent feeling, absolutely
without conscience, moral, pity, sympathy, principle, or any single good trait.
Why am I what I am?
I'll tell you why.
I did not make myself what I am.
Others had the making of me.
Everyone else is fault.
And I am not in the power to control it.
At this point, he recognizes what he is but he doesn't make any effort to reform himself.
It is kind of those two, even with extreme ownership, working with a team, when you say
it is easy to blame others.
And especially when it is their fault at certain times, it is like their fault that this
happened to that happen.
It is like a philosophy.
It is like a approach.
It is a certain approach.
You say, okay, you don't want to do their fault that this happened or whatever.
It is really hard to come up with a situation when you are a leader of a team and it is
the team's fault.
I haven't been able to come up with one lightly.
Yeah, yeah.
To say it is maybe you can.
Let's not say what I am saying is it is, okay, we will go with this guy.
A guy on Twitter.
He said, hey man, why are you giving all this hate to the machine gun or shoot outside
their field of fire?
That example a lot.
That is the machine gun is fault right?
No.
I said do, hey man, I hate the officers that blame the machine gun or when the machine
gun doesn't know where it is supposed to be shooting.
That is the machine gun is fault.
That is your fault boss.
So, continue on about the situation that you are trying to do.
This is a typical little thing that I will hear from people.
It is like, wow, sometimes I take ownership of it.
That is what you think you are wrong.
Yeah, not wrong.
I did it, but because right now I am not saying about who's fault it is.
That is not the point I am trying to make.
It is more that he is right.
It is because of them.
They or the way his parents raised him did cause him to be like this.
It caused him to be like this.
It caused him to be like, it didn't like his parents raised him, didn't make him, you
know, satimize that kid or whatever.
They didn't make him do it, but they are raised the way they raised him caused him, just
cause an effect straight up, cause him to be like that.
What I am quote.
No, it is his fault.
Yes, it is his fault that he is doing all these things.
Because you can just not, you can not do it.
That is possible to just not do it that day or at all whatever.
So yeah, his first fault in blaming yes.
You are going to Sam Harris free will on me.
No, the thing is I mean, I guess what I am saying is like if you don't go to the lack
of free will.
Yeah, lack of free will.
No, well, not necessarily.
I am just basically isolating the blaming part of it and then the cause and effect part
of it, you know, kind of thing.
Because in that case he is right, like what he is saying is correct, as long as he is
not saying and it is their fault and it is not my fault.
I am not, you know what?
He is saying that.
Yes, okay.
So push that aside.
He is right in my sense.
I am.
What I am.
Others had to make you make everyone else's fault.
That I am like this.
Yeah, that is not extremely true.
No.
But go cause an effect on him.
Here's my point.
Because this is not, this is a gray area, right?
From the gray area.
Here's the problem.
If he looks at it, if he only lends that he looks at it through is this is everyone
else's fault and he's not to blame, then guess what?
He's not going to make any changes.
If he had a little bit, if he just looked at the situation and said, you know what?
All these things happened.
But some of this is cause of me.
Some of this is cause the actions that I have taken and I can now change my behavior.
So I don't stay in this mode of operating right now.
That's the difference.
And he never makes that change.
He never makes that different.
He never sees it that way.
The only thing he sees is that it's everyone else's fault.
And when you, this is the thing.
He go, you can see it gradually increases.
He's going from like, oh, I just hate this teachers and I just hate the wargons and eventually
he hates everybody because it's everyone else's fault.
Even people who doesn't even know cause they're a member of the human race.
He hates them.
Yeah.
That's why I personal responsibility.
So important to teach the kids.
Yes, so important to teach the kids.
And that's one thing I think I learned.
I mean, obviously I got some of it from my parents, but it was really crystal clear when
I came in the military because it's black and white.
The gray area's gone.
When you go through some kind of military and auctionation, the gray area is gone.
You mess this up.
It's your fault.
You're going to get punished for it.
Yeah.
We still get guys right?
That first, first, first, true sergeant is right in here, whatever.
You know, Billy should have done this.
Jones should have done that.
It's like, okay, but it doesn't matter.
Yeah, pay the man.
Just sit back.
Back to the book.
I have only a little knowledge, but I have as much intelligence as the average person and
I know I was taught wrong.
I could have been taught properly.
And if I had been, I sure feel I would have led a far different life than I have done.
You are to blame more so than I.
Straight up.
You.
He's talking to us.
It's not going to general human, the race of human beings.
That's my belief.
If you are going to go on teaching others as you have taught me, then you must suffer the same
as I.
Here we go.
He is at this point on trial.
This is from like I think this is one of the ones from a newspaper clipping or a report.
But it's another part.
This is, so this is in Panzeram's journal.
This is some of the additional information back to the book.
On the stand, Panzeram's eyes slid toward the table where his pistol and burglar tools
lay.
Prosecutor Collins whispered to an assistant who hurried over and removed the exhibits
to a safer place.
The arms of the witness chair disappeared under Panzeram's huge hands as he faced the
jury ignoring everyone else in the courtroom.
You people got me here charged with house breaking in larceny.
I'm guilty.
I broke in and I stole what I didn't steal.
I smashed.
If the owner would come home, I would have knocked his brains out.
Panzeram's eyes took on this strange depth as he watched the jury.
There's something else you ought to know.
Will you try me here? I was trying all of you too.
I found you guilty.
Some of you, I've executed.
If I live, I'll execute some more of you.
I hate the whole human race.
He said evenly.
A juror gasped.
Panzeram's round heads suddenly swung toward the prosecutor who looked alert and suspicious.
You think I'm playing crazy.
Don't you?
I'm not.
I know right from wrong.
No delusions.
I don't hear anything you don't hear.
My conscience doesn't bother me.
I have no conscience.
I believe the whole human race should be exterminated.
I'll do my best to do it every chance I get.
The court one was now numb as Panzeram turned to the jurors once more.
Now I've done my duty.
You do yours.
He gets along prison sentence and when he gets into prison, he actually kills one of the civilian
workers there in prison.
A guy that just was like a mate and a guy who runs the laundry.
He has a beef and kills him.
This is where we start.
This is one of the letters.
I talked about the guy Henry Lesser, who was a guard in one of the prisons he was in, who
formed a relationship.
He actually says a couple times that this is the only guy that didn't try and take something.
I think the whole thing started off a game like a dollar to buy cigarettes or whatever.
According to him, no one had ever done anything nice for Panzeram.
He's alive.
This guard was the first guy to do it.
He developed a relationship with him.
They go, they write letters back and forth.
Here's the excerpt of one of those many letters back to the book.
The real truth of the matter is that I haven't released desire to reform.
Very much the reverse of that is true.
I would not reform if the front gate was open right now.
And if I was given a million dollars when I stepped out, I have no desire to do good or
to be good.
I am just as mean now as I can be and the only reason I am no worse is because I lack
the power and the proper opportunity for meness.
If I had the power and the opportunities, then I would soon show you what real meanness
was.
You overlook the fact that the law and the great many people have been trying their
damnedest for 25 years to reform me.
I am tired of having people try to reform me.
What I want to do is reform them.
It took me 36 years to be like I am now.
Then how do you figure that I could if I wanted to change from black to white in the
twinkling of an eye?
Another letter.
Same theme.
I have no desire to reform under such conditions.
This would be required of me the way the laws of this country are today.
I do not care to live any longer if I must live in prison.
I would far rather die and go to hell if that's where people like me go after death.
I have very thoroughly considered this matter and I assure you now what I say is the truth.
I have confessed 21 different cold blooded premeditated murders, hundreds of cases of
arson, burglaries, robberies, rapes and other crimes.
The law has by this time looked them up and verified the truth of my various confessions.
My philosophy of life is such that very few people ever get and so deeply ingrained
and burned into me that I don't believe I could ever change my beliefs.
The things I have done to others, the things I have had done to me by others and the things
I have done to them can never be forgotten or forgiven either by me or others.
I can't forget and I won't forgive.
I couldn't if I wanted to.
The law is in the same fix.
My belief is that the life without liberty is not worth having.
If the law won't kill me, I shall kill myself.
I fully realize that I am not fit to live among people in a civilized community.
I have no desire to do so.
If I had any choice in living any longer, the only way I would consent to do so would be to
get clear out and away from all civilized people.
I am so set in my ways that I cannot adapt to myself to the ways of other people so that
the only way for me to do would be to live by myself without any human companionship, whatever.
He actually describes this island that he spent a little time on when he was down in South
America.
He's like, send me there.
If you want to send me somewhere.
Those back so now he'd killed that other guy, Warnke, the civilian, and now he's going
to trial for that murder.
And this is a newspaper report of that trial.
Back to the book, The Commission heard the hard-boiled giant tell of the fun which he received
and killing a man.
And there isn't a man in this room.
I wouldn't kill.
The cruel visage, steel-eyed man, told the commission.
I'm mad.
Plenty mad right now.
I don't believe there's any good in any man.
I'd like to have the opportunity to go away, gain power, and brains.
And then I'd like to kill off the rest of the world.
The convict said.
Dr. Perry asked the giant if he believed himself better than the rest of mankind.
Hell no, was it a reply.
I've checked up on myself lately and I know that I'm probably worse than the rest
of you.
I have no desire to live.
If you would hang me, my troubles would be over and I would be better off.
But don't you fear hellfire?
A member of the commission inquired?
You haven't been able to prove to me that there is such a thing.
Pan's ram answered.
The man boasted in court of killing 21 persons and vowed that when his parents living,
he would kill them, quote, for bringing me into the world.
There are two things in this world that count as powerful.
Money and knowledge.
You get enough money.
I would buy brains because brains are first sale.
I could get a brainy chemist and I would have them prepare me a lot of poison gas and
germs with these.
I would be able to exterminate a great mass of human beings that I would kill myself.
Society should build a great monument because I have never propagated my kind.
So that's what his little excerpt of what his trial was like.
You know, he was done.
I mean, he just did not care.
Back to the book, and this is the book itself.
The court convened again the next morning in the judge having been given no alternative
by the hard rural jury looked down at the defendant and pronounced him guilty with no
mention of life-saving phrase without capital punishment.
Pan's ram had nothing to say concerning the sentence.
Hopkins then ordered that he be remanded with to the care of the warden at the federal
penitentiary at Levinworth there to be confined until the fifth day of September when
between the hours of six and nine o'clock in the morning, you shall be taken to some
suitable place within the confines of the penitentiary and hanged by the neck until dead.
The judge then announced the 90 day interval to allow for any bill of objection and
appeal before the defense attorney could speak.
Pan's ram said swiftly, I don't want any attorney to file for a new trial or appeal
to anything I'm satisfied with the verdict.
So, while he's now on death row, there's a delegation of people that are against capital
punishment and they start fighting to get him off death row.
He writes them a letter.
Here's a little part of that letter.
On February 1st, 1929, I began serving this sentence at the U.S. Penitentiary at Levinworth
Kansas on June 20th, 1929.
I murdered one man, a civilian employee of the prison by the name of Wunky.
And at the same time in place, I also attempted to murder a dozen other men, both guards
and convicts.
The only reason I did not kill them was also because I couldn't catch them.
If I had given another trial or if the death sentence should be commuted to life in prison,
either in penitentiary or in insane asylum, it will be against my will.
And then he goes on to try to explain to them because he doesn't want them to think that
he's crazy.
Because if he's crazy, then he's not, he's going to get insane asylum or you know, reason
of insanity.
Back to the book, I shall try and convince you that I'm quite sane at this time.
I am at this time 38 years old, a big, powerful man, strong in both body and mind.
My physical fitness is not as good as it once was, but my mental facilities are unimperited
in any way.
I've never used drugs of any kind or any type.
I am, I am and always have been a very moderate drinker of liquor practically a total
abstainer.
I've never taken any disease of any kind which would have the tendency to weaken my intellect.
I've never been addicted to any habits of sexual accesses of any kind over which I didn't
have complete control of myself.
I choose to die here and now by being hanged by the neck until I'm dead.
I prefer that I die that way.
And if I have a soul and if that soul should burn in hell for a million years, still
I prefer that to a lingering, agonizing death and some prison dungeon or a padded cell
in a madhouse.
I do not believe that being hanged by the neck until dead is a barbaric or in human
punishment.
I look forward to it as a real pleasure and a big relief for me.
I do not feel bad or unhappy about it in any way.
Every day since I received that sentence I felt pretty good.
I feel good right now and I believe that when my last hour comes I will dance out of my
dungeon and onto the scaffold with a smile in my face and happiness in my heart.
Another reason why I believe this sentence should be carried out is because I believe
it is justice.
And I am quite sincere when I say that this is the first and only time in my life of battling
with the law that I ever did get justice from the law.
One other thing I am going to tell you before I stop this letter and that is this.
The only thanks that you or your kind will ever get for me for your efforts on my behalf
is that I wish you all had one neck and that I had my hands on it.
I would sure put you out of your misery just the same as I have done with numbers of other
people.
I have no desire whatever to reform myself.
My only desires to reform people who try to reform me and I believe that the only way
to do reform to people is to kill them.
My motto is rape a mall, rob a mall and kill a mall.
I am very truly yours, Carl Panzeram.
Another letter.
I think it was the next the last letter that he wrote to Lesser.
Henry Lesser, he says, I had no choice about coming into this world in nearly 38, nearly
all of my 38 years and it had very little to say and do about how I should live my life.
People have driven me into doing everything I have ever done.
Now the time has come when I refuse to be driven any further.
So again, I have only done what I have done because of what other people have done to me.
That is not on me.
Zero responsibility.
Everything I have ever done is because of other people.
Ever.
It is a slippery slope that you just tried to step on for a couple minutes ago.
Yes, it is actually in you thinking about it, aren't you?
Yeah, but I am not wrong.
Because I am not talking about the blame.
I am talking about causing a fact, but who is the thing?
No.
Causing a fact is kind of like that is easy to start blaming.
You got this.
You are saying technically.
I will split here as well.
Technically there is a difference.
My point is if you have the, I mean, I work with people all the time and this is the
most important transition that people make in their brain is whether you are a business
leader, whether you are talking about your personal life, whether you are talking about
the family, whatever you are talking about.
The transition that you make from doing what you are saying right now, which is like, well,
it is actually their fault.
That is in the back of your mind.
Okay, if that is in the back of your mind, like, okay, the problem is it grows.
The problem is you use that.
The problem is next thing you know, it is not just that, it is this, it is their fault.
And it is the other thing that is their fault.
And it is my team's fault.
And it is not my fault.
Yeah.
I mean, just to be clear though, I am not saying the fault part of the way.
The fault fault in the blaming, that part of it literally has nothing to do with it.
So what are you saying?
Causing effect, they are two different things.
Look, put it this way.
Okay.
And I used to kind of say this as a joke, where, I don't know, let's say I did something.
And then I'd be like, well, it is not my fault.
It is my parents fault for having me.
Oh, but it is their fault.
Actually, it is my grandparents fault for having them.
Oh, no, it is my great kind.
And you start just blaming every little factor that contributed to this result, every little
factor.
Yeah.
Here's it.
So basically to kind of break that apart, it is like, yeah, if my parents didn't have
me, this wouldn't happen.
It is true.
But the thing is, you can't just start point blame as far as assigning blame goes.
I am not assigning blame if I am saying, hey, this is a factor or whatever, unless I am
doing it as a joke, you see what I am saying.
Okay.
So if when you do cross the line to start assigning blame, that's when you can't be like,
okay, it's everything else that you got to blame yourself.
But it's a you're not assigning blame.
You're just maybe analyzing it from an objective perspective.
So you can identify all kinds of causes, all kinds of causes.
Seems same.
And they're probably true.
But not having anything to do with causing blame or assigning blame or saying who's
fault it is.
Seems same.
Okay, it's just another example of how like you or we whatever, when I talk to you
a lot of the time, sometimes all you will take a scenario and I'll just sort of marvel
at different working parts of this scenario.
Like, oh, it's interesting how this is this and this is this, but you could do this and
look at it this way too.
Even though it has nothing to do with me.
You know, and it has nothing to do with any kind of actions to be taken or nothing
like that, it's essentially just analyzing the scenario and being interested in it.
Versus you, you always look at the scenario like, okay, yeah, cool.
That's cool.
You analyze it, but what do you do?
You know, your attitude is real take action kind of approach.
So I think that's where I think that's where we're getting some misfires.
Seems same.
I think that it's like, I want to base some action to be taken upon the way I'm looking
at it.
When it requires no actions, just the way to sort of look at it, you know?
But if you want to take action, like, okay, so who do we blame?
That's the beginning of taking action in a way.
Who do we blame?
What do we got to fix?
Who do we got to fix?
Whatever to move forward to fix a situation to whatever rectify it.
Then you got to be like, okay, I got to identify the problem that I can change.
And then, yeah, in that case, I know that problem is going to be yourself.
It's the best way.
And if it's not, then you're not going to solve anything.
Yeah.
You just consider on blame people.
But does that make sense?
Maybe.
I don't recommend it.
No, yeah.
That's the thing.
Yeah.
And again, even that was saying, I don't recommend it.
That's like, that's super indicative of just like, yeah, you don't recommend that as a
problem solving technique.
That's a, that's a, that's an take action approach right there.
It's the same.
It's kind of like if we came to a stop light and then the stop lights red and like, wow,
isn't that red stop light super nice?
Like, it's a beautiful color red.
And you're going to be like, yeah, like, but it means to stop.
So we're stopped.
I'm like, no, I know, but isn't it kind of beautiful?
And then it turns green.
Wow, isn't that a beautiful green light?
And you're like, yeah, but it means to go.
And I've been like, cool, but it's a pretty nice shade of green.
Seems same.
It's like two different perspectives.
Yeah.
And then, of course, you'd roll for the green light.
And, you know, I'd go get after it.
Yeah.
I'll leave that one at that.
All right.
Obviously, the attempts to save Carl Pandram were ceased.
And here's how his life ends according to this book at 11 worth.
The lights of the isolation had burned into a pale gray dawn on September 5th when
Pan's Ram heard the distant, distant rattle of footsteps who's not quite six o'clock.
Guard, belard, went over to the steel door leading to an outer corridor and peered through
the small barred window.
Gordon White's voice was heard and the guard turned a brass key in the lock.
The door swung open, white entered the isolation at the head of the procession of some
20 persons, including guards and newspaper reporters.
Immediately behind the warden was Marshall McEver McEver and the tall government hangman
carrying the leather harness over one arm.
And stopped in front of Pandram's cell.
The spectators pressed themselves discreetly against the opposite wall as Pan's Ram faced
them searching through the wire mesh with his hostile eyes.
He saw two men in clerical garb on the fringes of the crowd and it once began to roar
at white.
Are there any Bible-backed cock suckers in here?
I thought you might change your mind, white apologized.
These gentlemen came a long way to offer you comfort.
Get them out, shouted Pan's Ram.
I don't mind being hanged but I don't need any Bible-backed hypocrites around me.
Run them out, warden, or you'll have one hell of a time getting me out of this cell.
Every man I get a hand on is going to the hospital.
White New Pan's Ram was within a condemned man's traditional rights regarding witnesses
of his own execution.
The disappointed clergymen were escorted out.
All right, Pan's Ram said, let's get going.
What are we stalling for?
White motions, the guards and newsmen to proceed to the exercise yard as bothered to
opened Pan's Ram's cell.
Pan's Ram helped his escorts faster than fastened the leather corset.
Anything you want to say, ask the hangman fumbling with a strap.
Ram snapped impatiently.
Yes, hurry it up, you who's your bastard.
I could hang a dozen men while you're fooling around.
In the yard, the newsmen took heried notes.
The scaffold looked strange and somehow unexpected.
Do glistened on the boards that had the raw temporary look of a structure erected for
a county fair.
Unless then a minute, the backdoor of the isolation opened and Pan's Ram was emerged
between ballard and the hangman.
Pan's Ram was almost running ahead, half dragging the taller escorts.
White and the martial hurry behind, trailed by officers trying to look dignified as they
ran.
In the confusion, the spectators parted into two lines as they had processed as the
procession raised Palmell in their direction.
Pan's Ram's face was rigid and looked straight ahead.
His eyes fixed on the rope.
He had the foot of the stairs that he seemed to notice the transfixed onlookers.
He paused, looked slowly around and spat twice.
Then his face was forward again.
Everyone's nostrils inhaled the sweet smell of new oak and hemp and everyone's eyes
followed him up the 13 steps which he felt with his feet.
He hurried up the gallows, as toward the gate, pulling ballard and the hangman with him.
The reporters who had witnessed this event were surprised by its swiftness and their
accounts were in conflict as to the time and exact detail.
There was uncertainty as to whether Pan's Ram had been able to spit on the executioner
as he had promised he would.
The reporters know books hide, hung limp during the swift adjustment of the rope, the
exploding sound of the opening doors and the swift downward stroke of the body.
Later they recalled the mist which had settled on the guard and the indistinct figures
of guards watching from a tower on the wall.
The prison had been quiet, the first bell was not yet scheduled to ring for an hour.
Reporters had left the same way they came in and were relieved to find themselves outside
the walls.
Records of official entry regarding the death of Carl Pan's Ram are brief.
Dr. Justin K. Fuller, one of the two doctors in attendance step forward to the stretched
body underneath the gallows, placed a stethoscope gently on the chest and palpitated
the neck.
Later he dictated his report to a prison clerk.
Medical certificate of death, Carl Pan's Ram.
I hear by certified that I examine the body of Carl Pan's Ram in accordance with the
directions of the surgeon general of the U.S. Public Health Service and Attorney General.
At U.S. Penn at Tentry 11, Worth Kansas, on September 5, 1930, and pronounced him dead
at 6.18 AM.
I found the cause of death to be dislocation, cervical vertebra, strangulation, legal execution.
And so ended the life of Carl Pan's Ram on September 5, 1930, and while Pan's Ram died
evil as we see certainly did not die with him.
It still walks among us today.
And as we've been going back and forth on obviously Pan's Ram did not get many benefits in life.
That does not excuse his actions.
And we are responsible for what we do.
We are responsible for our lives and if someone's had horrible things happen to them, if
they've seen horrible things, if they've done horrible things.
It's still important that you don't become those horrible things that you don't propagate
those horrible things.
Instead be the hero, be the savior that absorbs those things, those horrible things, and
passes on good.
And you do that.
You do that by treating people with respect and being just kind to other human beings.
And it's one of those things that I thought about this one character, this Henry Lester,
this guard, this the first person that Pan's Ram ever thought did something nice to him.
And who knows?
What happened earlier, maybe could have been a teacher at the state school.
Maybe that's what tips someone towards the good.
Are you that person?
Can you be that person that's swathes someone from doing evil, doing good simply through
some sympathetic words, some compassionate gesture?
Think about that.
Might be that person.
I might be that person.
We might be that person that sets the good example by being nice, by being kind.
And here's the dichotomy.
At the same time, you got to be strong enough to stand up to people that think might
make right.
You got to be strong enough to face the malevolent force of evil.
And you have to recognize that that force is everywhere.
That that's Satanic force that is waiting to pray on the weak.
And if we don't fight it, then that force is going to win.
So we cannot stand down.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight kind of a rough one.
Yes, when you think about it, this is pretty psychotic.
Like pretty psychotic.
Say, in evil for sure.
But I don't know if it was just the way he presented it was like, it wasn't like, it's tragic.
Because I don't know the other stuff that I've heard.
Let me tell you a part of it.
He wrote it and he became humanized in your head.
So you were listening to him talk and you were sympathizing with him and you were understanding
the harshness that he went through and you were completely detached and you didn't humanize
any of the victims at all.
Right.
Yes.
And I'm talking about this beautiful girl, Lisa, and what she went, you understood her.
Go watch some of the videos of that girl.
It's such a nice person.
Just an angel.
And that's what you relate to.
So as a person yourself, as a human being yourself, it's very easy for you to get for
you to humanize someone.
Right.
To you to listen to Karl Parnasar and he's been through and he's telling it from your perspective
and all these time.
You're not loving your own boy.
You don't know anything about that boy.
Right.
Just some arbitrary arbitrary.
Doesn't even barely exist.
It's a word.
Boy, that's all it is.
But it's not.
It's not.
That's a little kid.
That's exactly what it was.
You're going through his struggles.
And sure, he's not put well.
Yeah.
He's talking about his anger and everyone did say it and you're like dang.
Okay.
Dang.
That's, you know, he's a mad guy.
You know, I'm not siding with him, but it's more like you're just getting it from his
perspective.
You know, he dies and you're like, well, he's deserved it.
Yeah.
But if, yeah, if they told that the whole story of like, I don't know, any one of the
things that he was expecting, he'd be like, dang man.
This is heavy.
Dark.
And he sort of like, he didn't go in to any kind of graphic detail.
You just be like, and I committed sort of, in fact, I was like, bro, how are you even
doing that?
You're just, I just sort of committed tried to commit.
Like, how do you do that?
You know, you just, hey, come here.
Let me commit.
Saw to me on you.
I mean, I don't know.
Well, that's what it's like.
That's what it's like.
Two hundred pound dude against 11 year old boy.
Yeah.
But even like the, you know, his, in mates or whatever.
Everyone who's just, and the point is there, he just sort of just, he's praying on the
week.
He says all the time.
He's just picking a guy that's 132 pounds.
Yeah.
But yeah.
And he's 200 pounds.
Yeah.
600.
The, what the deal is.
But like, where I grew up in New England, the houses, like the ceilings are lower.
And the doors are smaller because people were smaller back in the day.
And this is a hundred years ago.
But or whatever, 90 years ago.
Yeah.
But a people a little bit smaller, you know.
So he had met six foot 190 is kind of like a yolk to do.
Yeah.
And he's just, you know, with all that, you know, years of heart labor.
Swing in an 18 pound hammer.
Yeah.
You know, he was strong.
But he just sort of breezes over it, though.
You know, there's no graphic details.
Just sort of, yeah.
I just committed some bad crimes.
You know.
So that's why it's always good to think about the perspective of the other people.
Yeah.
It's crazy.
But, you know.
And yeah, he could as he should have, he should have chosen path as what he should have done.
Yeah.
Like I said, yeah, he said that right.
Well, more important.
I think, because you're going to have some people out there that are going to choose a wrong path.
Yes.
They're not, they're not going to go, they're not going to go in a good direction.
And that's why it's important to be prepared mentally and physically to stand up and face that, man.
It's true.
You got to.
Speaking of which, yes.
Take some, you get to.
So you're right now, you take some, you get to, you really decrease the probability of anyone attempting to sort of meet on you.
Yes.
That is a big help.
Reduce.
Yes.
You know.
Anyway.
What that means is we're going to, you get to regard this of our, our, what we're trying to defend ourselves from.
Uh,
You get to versus evil.
Yes, I'm saying.
Yes.
It helps.
If you, yes, you need all your tools to fight against evil.
Yeah, big town.
There's evil in the world confirmed.
Yeah.
Fully live evil in the world right now.
It's crazy.
Everyone's all all flash.
It'll flash in my mind.
How valuable, you get to is.
Like if you, if someone said, hey, you can, you can never go to the beach ever again.
Or you can never do you get to ever again.
I assume saying, oh, you, you might have some issue.
No, I just think that's what it, how like the two big things.
You can put on the thing, so I would be, you just say, you got to give up one.
Yeah.
The beach isn't even on my list.
I mean, I'll just go surfing, but just going to the beach for you is a thing for me.
It's not really a thing.
Uh, yeah.
Well, put it this way.
Like I, I could, I'd trade a lot.
I'd give up a lot to keep you, you do, if it was in the,
Yeah, here's something.
Yeah.
Here's something.
If you know some, you do, too.
If you know some, you do, if you know more of you do the most other people around you,
that's a real beneficial thing.
Yeah.
Big time.
Can you, and it's funny because if you don't know anything, you're a little bit ignorant,
in fact, you're a lot ignorant, and you don't even know what you don't know.
And so you're sitting in, you're, you're walking across a parking lot, right?
And it's Santa Clock at night when someone comes to bother you.
And you think in your mind, like, I'll just do this and this and you don't know anything.
Yeah.
So it's a complete, it's a complete hole in your game.
And the game of life is what I'm talking about.
The game of life, yeah.
If it is, if you know GJ2 and you're walking across Santa Clock at night,
and someone's going to give you a problem, you actually know what to do.
Yeah.
And, and the person that doesn't know anything, there's so far, just behind.
It's crazy.
I remember in college, where, and I knew how to do a rear-de-de-kid joke.
And I, like, you know, just from watching, you'll see one, two,
never trained at actual GJ2 class, but I remember in college, I got into this like fight.
Right?
And we ended up not fighting, fighting, but you know the kind that we started to fight.
And, but it was nothing, you know, whatever.
Was it a friend?
No.
Okay.
He was like, was it a known person?
Or just a tone random?
Yeah.
He was like, at a party scenario?
No.
And, you know, whatever.
It doesn't matter what, how you got broken up, whatever.
And we continued, you know, our lives.
But right now, I'm thinking back to like, how much I didn't know.
Like, what was I even thinking like, what was I going to do?
Yeah.
Just sort of throw punches, you know, or something like this.
Like, what?
Like, even when you do get an offite, and you don't really know any,
especially, you need you to, it's like, man, you sort of, it's sort of a crap shoot.
Really?
Um, compared to if you know you do do do do.
It's not a crap shoot.
It's like, oh, I'm going to either decide to do whatever I want, kind of thing to this person.
If you want to, if you don't train you to do and you want to know what it's like,
picture anything that you actually know how to do, like,
shoot a basketball or play basketball.
Yeah.
And picture someone that never played before playing against you.
That's what's going to happen.
Yeah.
If you don't know anything.
Or like, say, go find someone if you ever can.
Find someone who doesn't know how to ride a bike or skateboard.
Yes, not a no-sad or a skateboard, but a bike and say, hey, let's race to the end of the block on this bike.
And that person doesn't even know how to ride a bike.
They've never been on a bike before.
Yeah.
They have zero chance of it.
They just say, I know, that's like that.
Anyway.
Sure.
So train some G.Jitsu.
Train some G.Jitsu.
Go take some class.
Brad, just go ahead and go learn how to ride that bike.
Right now.
In America, you can train G.Jitsu in so many different places.
It's amazing.
Yeah.
There's amazing places to train G.Jitsu.
So go train some G.Jitsu.
Yeah.
And when you do so, you want to do G.
And no G.
So when you get a G, what G do we get?
We all know.
If you don't know already.
Or G.Jitsu.
Mm-hmm.
Go to OrjinMe.com.
They got rest cards on there as well.
joggers as well.
Shirts.
Supplements.
Supplements of course.
Mm-hmm.
And that's a good one too.
Where, and I took care of, I, you know,
Okay, remember I told you, like, oh, yeah.
I didn't take joint warfare for like days.
And you're like, what?
Why not?
I was like, oh, because I just got an offer God or whatever.
Here's the thing, I admitted something to myself.
Sometimes when I didn't back then, when I didn't take it,
it's not that I forgot.
It's just that I don't feel like, oh, I'll take one tomorrow or something.
Mm-hmm.
Like, I'm literally, I was literally too lazy to just go on the pantry right here.
No, by the way.
Like three, four feet away.
Yeah.
Get it open it up.
I'm getting your routine now.
But, yes, and this is how I put it into my routine.
I was like, there's no way I'm going to be able to accept the fact that I'm too lazy to spend
literally 20 seconds, literally.
And you know, and take some pills.
Yeah.
There's like no way I can accept that.
Do you know what I'm not trapped in your brain when you feel like?
I'm kind of out, I guess, a little bit.
For least two hours a week, I'm a little bit trapped in your brain.
Well, you're the one who's correcting it, because I'm like,
I don't know what, because you're like, dude, just do it in your routine.
And you make it sound so easy, because it doesn't feel that easy,
but then I'm thinking, like, wait, it is that easy, really.
I'm just not allowed in it.
So you put it by your toothbrush or whatever.
Not keeping it in the pantry, bro.
15 seconds.
Oh, but you just do it.
Just do it.
Yeah.
Do a little extra.
Do not fix it.
Yeah.
So I can carry a little extra.
Anyway.
Check.
Join warfare.
Crill oil.
These are the ones that I've been talking about.
That are in my routine every single day.
Mm-hmm.
Join.
All students.
Oh, discipline.
Which, if you don't know, we have a new flavor of discipline.
Oh, it's called Tropic Thunder.
Yep.
I got mine.
And let's be real.
And let's be honest.
What it is.
Penacle.
It's been a call.
But I couldn't have something out there called B.D.
A lot of that.
Come on, man.
Wait, Tropic Thunder isn't that a movie?
Yeah.
That's a good movie.
It's Lake Babin's favorite movie of all time.
No, actually.
But it's right up there.
Yeah.
Life quotes that movie a lot.
No.
I'm going to tell you.
I'm going to tell you right now.
You haven't seen Tropic Thunder?
Definitely.
I know what movie that is.
I think.
Robert Downey, Jr.
Yeah, but I know.
Most important character in there is Tom Cruise's character.
He's really, really funny.
Less.
Good men, I think, is the name.
Anyways.
So we couldn't call it in clear conscience.
We couldn't call it Piniacolata.
That's just wrong, right?
No.
Not happening.
It's an alcoholic beverage.
We're not doing it.
It's kind of a kind of a food food.
Was that a good word?
A kind of a food food.
Yeah.
Like you've never been doing an Italian restaurant or like where they where it's real.
It's real nice.
It's too nice.
Like they don't have like.
Hey, can I just get some chicken parmesan over here?
Yeah.
And when they bring you some food, it's really small.
And it has like a long like name.
Yeah.
In a different language.
But you know, the kind they put extras on the name, you know.
You know, fresh clot from the Appalachian blah, blah, blah in the title.
You know, it's like that kind.
Yeah.
But there's never very much food.
The longer the title, the less food you're going to get.
Yeah.
That's a good role.
So couldn't go Piniacolata to food food.
We went shopping thunder for Laefab and get his shopping thunder on.
And then don't forget about milk.
Which is additional protein additional protein and slash dessert.
Yeah.
Because it will fulfill your dessert desire.
You get done with the rib eye steak.
So what's the game like when you, you know, when you're going to, when you lift weights to a
Lissit gains, right?
You have to have a certain taste with the Z.
Yeah.
You got to eat what certain amount of protein.
It's like 0.7 or 0.6.
Or just 1 gram.
Yeah.
But here's actually what I learned with one graph.
Any protein like any macro they eat too much of, get turned to fat.
And protein, so you can get turns to sugar first from what I understand.
So you can eat too much protein.
His eyes are too much protein.
If you're going like two grams per body weight per pound of body weight.
What about nine grams per body?
I think that's fine.
So here's a good way to do it.
So in the morning, I make a omelet, right?
With egg whites.
Mm-hmm.
And it's good protein, clean, whatever.
Some of the best.
But when you kind of, if you're starting to, which I kind of started to measure these things
or keep track of, okay, how many of you can I am?
I really need whatever.
So it realizes not that much protein in a regular size.
Even a double size egg white omelet with no cheese and nothing.
So boom, you make your egg white omelet.
Maltrain.
Going on the side, make your mokshake.
Boom, perfect.
Oh mokshake.
Perfect, I'm on a protein.
I'm saying, if in fact you're into, you know, getting stronger and one, not.
Yep.
And on top of that, we got Warrior Kid Mokk, which is basically going to take over all milk
drinks for children in the very short period of time.
Because everyone wants their kid to be healthy.
The kid wants to be healthy and strong.
And the kid wants something that tastes absolutely amazing.
So there you go.
Warrior Kid Mokk.
Yeah.
Remember, like back in the day, it was the Hawaiian punch.
Oh, was that only in Hawaii?
That was in Hawaii.
That was just all the Hawaiian punch.
But it tasted like,
Hey, our English muffins over here.
I don't know.
Actually, English muffins aren't in England.
It's not a British thing.
Yeah, just like French fries aren't in France.
No.
They call them like palm treats.
Something else.
French.
Anyway, you know what I'm saying?
You should drink the Hawaiian punch when you're little,
mouth-al-read.
Taste it pretty good.
Yeah, well, it's super strong.
Yeah.
But, bro, you can't be giving your kids that like now with the knowledge.
No, no, no, no, no.
Yeah, it's like a non-assin.
Really?
It's a chillb child abuse.
Yeah.
And it's not just that.
These regular chocolate milk.
What is that?
It's just corn syrup in milk.
Yeah.
That's all it is.
And chocolate.
Yeah, and chocolate.
And sugar.
But we get kid-boy or kid-mulk.
Guess what?
You're making them stronger.
Smurger.
Faster.
Better.
And it tastes delicious.
Because kids don't want to drink something that tastes like crap.
No.
Drink something tasty.
So yeah, where you're kid-mulk.
All that stuff that we just talked about is at originmain.com.
If you want to support.
That's the good stuff.
All we're making made.
We throw that in there like it's a no big deal.
Yeah.
Go watch some of the videos of looms being remade.
It's good.
Also, if you want to represent while on the path,
Jocco is a store.
It's called JoccoStore.
So you've got to JoccoStore.com.
This is where you can get shirts and whatnot.
Discipline equals freedom.
Church.
Teacher.
Truckers.
Hats.
Or.
Flex Fats.
Whatever one you want.
Man.
I like the flip.
Flex.
I'm putting.
I'm going to put a bunch of new stuff on there.
A bunch.
2019.
It's 2019.
By the way.
Happy New Year.
Brother.
Thanks.
Is it funny?
I felt like you felt kind of uncomfortable telling me happy.
I like it's too like sentimental.
Hey, happy New Year, bro.
No.
We all work to do.
Let's go.
Focus.
All right.
New Year.
You got it.
That's cool.
Anyway.
I'm going to put a bunch of new stuff there for this year.
Cool.
You can also get JoccoWiteT.
That comes in either.
But regular T form like I'm drinking with tea bags or the can form like echo is drinking
with the can.
And the good thing about it is it's the only beverage in history or world that's guaranteed
100% to give you an 8,000 pound deadlift.
That's 8,000 pounds.
Don't forget to subscribe to this podcast.
Click subscribe.
So annoying.
Okay.
Just skip this part.
The Warrior Kid podcast.
The one you should check out.
If you don't check out the Warrior Kid podcast, whether you have kids or not, check
it out.
Glotty Kid Lessons from Uncle Jake.
So do that.
And then don't forget about your Warrior Kid soap.
And it's not soap for Warrior Kids.
It's soap made by a Warrior Kid.
Aiden has got his own business at IrishOxRanch.com.
What's that?
Like Earth Made.
Earth Made?
Yeah.
So he gets like goats.
Like if you want to know the source of your...
Oh, yes.
Yeah.
Like there you go.
Locally sourced.
Yeah.
It's not local technique.
Well, the people in the world are the ones who are.
But from the last, made in America.
That's true.
Okay.
So YouTube, you can also subscribe to the YouTube channel, which is the Jocco podcast
YouTube channel.
And since you're putting all this new stuff on the story, you're going to put some new
videos up.
At some point in the, you know, America history.
Yeah, sure.
Oh, yes, I am.
Thank you.
Okay, I know you were just telling me about one.
Yes.
You've done this before, were you telling me about a video and I never see it for four
months?
Well, because like, well, and this one could be one of those.
Cause it's like, I'm going to be like pushing it, you know?
Remember the Warpath one?
Yeah.
You know, I pushed it in the music.
And I was like, hey, should I make a bunch of things crumbling down?
Is that going to be dumb?
Let's do it.
We're going to find, but in the process of doing that, sometimes I'm like, this is
kind of dumb.
So I got to change it.
So I'm going to see, I want to push it just for out of fun.
But yeah, okay, I'm going to try how about that.
More videos and also we got psychological warfare, which we have failed.
We were going to get out that for the new year.
We did not accomplish that.
So that's not good.
But we will work on it.
And the current one is available, psychological warfare on iTunes, Google Play, MP3 platforms
of all kinds where you can get little messages.
We'll call from me, tracks about how to overcome a particular weakness that you
might be dealing with in the moment.
I thought about this with psychological warfare.
Sometimes like when the weakness creeps in, we don't like want to fight the weakness.
It's like, yeah, it's like we're like, it's almost like, okay, this is me, you might
not be able to relate.
Because you get mad when you feel like weakness.
Sometimes weakness will creep in and I'll look forward to not lift or like, okay, so
there's this burger place, right?
I'm not going to say which one.
And to go to this burger place, in a certain burger, you can get that's like off the
program.
You can't.
Oh, okay.
It's not a diet burger.
Yeah.
So what I, you know, when you're like, oh, should I just stick to the program,
but I'm really in the mood for this burger, right?
And the weakness creeps in takes hold.
And then you made the decision, all right, hey, I'm going to slip on the diet right
now.
I'm back on the plan.
I'm black, I'm back on the program tomorrow.
But I'm going to slip right now.
When you make that decision in your head, you feel good like, oh, I don't want to change
my mind because I'm so looking forward to the burger.
I'm saying, so it's like, what are those things where the reason sometimes people
won't listen or actually this has never happened to me, but I'm imagining the piece, if
someone doesn't want to listen to psychological warfare, that's why.
Because it's like, they just secretly, they don't want to accept it.
And it's like, you know, and they accept the weakness.
Yeah, this again reminds me that I'm glad I'm not trapped inside your head for more than two
hours.
It's a daily struggle.
No, no, the psychological is a good one.
It helps.
You've got to accept the help you have to do is press play.
Yeah.
That's the point.
That's the way.
You have to press play.
There's a little psychological part that you have to accept the fact that you're going
to get a spot.
It's like in the gym, right?
When you need a spot in the gym, you don't put on some light weight.
You get, if you have regular weight on, you don't need a spot in cool, but you've got to
make the decision to put the heavy weight on there.
And then you've got to make the decision to go find someone to spot you.
That part is hard for people.
That's what I think.
But once you get the spot, you've got the spot.
But you're in no danger of getting buried underneath that bench.
Seems like.
That's what psychological warfare is.
Come here.
Get it on.
What, Amazon Music.
And iTunes, Apple Music, wherever they sell MP3s, that's where you get them.
I got the core for.
It's good one.
Very good one.
Also, very up your workout, man.
Get some more workout stuff from on it.
Go on it.
Go on slash jocco.
That's where you get.
They got some good stuff on there.
Ropes, battle ropes, maces, clubs, kettlebells, of course.
The best kettlebells.
I mean, the best I've ever used.
I mean, is that many butt?
I don't even want to try any other ones because they're the best in my opinion.
And yeah, a lot of good stuff on there, a lot of good tips on there as well.
And information.
You know, on it.
Comfortable, stockable, good spot.
I also got some books.
Mike in the Dragons is out.
It's live.
And we should not ever run out of it again.
I printed a lot more.
So if you want Mike in the Dragons for you, for your kids, for your neighbor kids, for
your library, for your school, order Mike in the Dragons.
It is a story that will teach your kids and all children that read it.
That will stand up and face their fears.
It's so cool to see all the pictures of people post of like, oh, the kids.
Yeah.
Like, yeah, I got Mike in the Forkish.
And since I like that.
Also a lot of kids, you know, this is my kids favorite book.
You know, this is now my kids favorite book.
That's pretty cool.
So super stoked.
If you haven't read it, check it out, Mike in the Dragons.
You can get it on Amazon.
Also, weigh the warrior kid and weigh the warrior kid to Mark's mission.
And good news, I had a deadline of finishing weigh the warrior kid three by New Year's
Day.
Guess what I finished it.
He was this moment.
Yeah.
New Year's Day.
I had to go and finish it before I worked out because I was at my deadline.
That's what prioritized.
So your deadline.
My deadline.
Yeah.
My deadline to finish the book.
Good good, man.
So yeah.
So that'll be coming out.
But right now, get way the warrior kid and way the warrior kid to Mark's mission.
Those are both out discipline.
Because freedom field manual.
I know a lot of folks grab that for Christmas.
Appreciate it.
Appreciate most that you're spreading the word to people that you know.
Little gift.
Give someone the gift of discipline.
That's what I'm talking about.
If you want the audio version, it's not unautable.
It's on Amazon Music, iTunes, Google Play and other MP3 platforms.
Of course, we have extreme ownership, which was recently made some kind of chart for
the audio book, Laf Laf Babin and I read the audio book.
Well, me and the Texas Batman reading the audio book.
And we also read the audio book for the follow-up to that book, which is called the
dichotomy leadership, which I kicked off today with a tiny little excerpt.
That's the follow-up book.
And I think yeah, some people think it's better.
Interesting.
It makes sense that it is because now we've written more books and a little more experience,
learn more.
So find out for yourself, dichotomy leadership, that one's available.
You also got Ashlan front.
That's our leadership consultancy.
We solve problems through leadership.
That's what we do.
You need help with the leadership at your organization.
And if you have any kind of issue, whatever kind of issue you have, it's a leadership problem.
It's not a problem of HR.
It's a leadership problem.
It's not a problem.
The finance department, it's a leadership problem.
It's not an operational problem.
It's a leadership problem.
The problem that you have in your organization is a leadership problem.
If you need help with that, go to Ashtonfront.com for details.
Also, we got the master.
The master is now live.
We got Chicago.
We got Denver.
We got Sydney.
If you want to come to the master leadership conference, extreme ownership.com, all of the
masters have sold out and all the masters will sell out.
So if you want to come get there early, I think there's maybe a ticket or two left for
the live podcast that we are recording January 9th in New York City.
If you want to come to that, try and jump on and buy a ticket real quick because it's real
close to sold out.
Look forward to seeing there.
Also, EF online.
So we just launched this.
What this is, this is an online interactive leadership training source.
It's myself and the rest of the echelonfront training team puts together.
Wanted to be able to reach more people.
This kind of spawn from organizations that we work with where they have tens of thousands
or even in some cases, hundreds of thousands of employees.
And they want us to train everybody on the fundamental principles of combat leadership.
Obviously, with our six or seven instructors, we can't do that.
And so we had to figure out a way to scale the educational process.
So what we did is we went to virtual.
So we put this together.
Once we made it, we said, well, we're making it director to consumer as well.
So if you want to check that out, you can go to EF online.com, EF online.com and speak
of EF.
EF Overwatch.
This is where we are connecting proven leaders, proven combat leaders from the spec ops community
and from combat aviation with companies in the civilian sector that need these experienced
leaders to step up and lead their organization.
So EF Overwatch.com is where you can get involved with that.
Whether you're someone that's looking for talent, you can click on talent, seeker, whether
you're someone of that that's looking for a career, click on career, seeker and fill
those out.
We are standing by to help you.
And if you want to cruise with us, kind of hard.
Yes, sir.
We can be found and communicated with on the interwebs, on Twitter, on Instagram.
And on the Fashi, goh.
Eko is at Eko Charles and I am at Joko Willink and finally thanks to all our military
personnel out there.
Thank you for standing up and taking the flight to the enemy and to our folks at uniform
in uniform.
Here at home, including police and law enforcement and firefighters and paramedics,
NEMTs and the correctional officers and border patrol and all the first responders, thank
you for standing up to evil here at home.
And to Luisa, Jess Pearson and Marin Eulin, who were murdered in Morocco.
We will remember you and to the despicable savages that took your lives.
We will remember you too.
And we'll remember those like you and we will never surrender to the evil that you
bring into the world.
We will stand up, we will be strong and we will win.
And until next time, this is Eko and Joko out.